# Cellular IoT Monitor
The purpose of this project is to transmit sensor readings from a remote location without requiring internet service.  This is accomplished by using an inexpensive (less than $2/month for 1MByte of data) IoT SIM card along with commonly available components to gain access to the cloud via a cellular connection.  The project uses sensor modules pass data it to a hub for transmission to the cloud.  The HUB can operate with or without separate sensor platforms, as it also has sensors.  The sensor software, AmbientAP, and the hub software, AmbientHUB, are  written in C++ on an Arduino IDE.

The AmbientAP.ino software controls an ESP32 or a D1 Mini 8266 microcontroller connected to a BME-280 temperature/humidity/pressure sensor and an (optional) SSD1306 OLED display over the I2C bus, or optionally a DHTxx temperature/humidity sensor. It functions as a wireless http access point server which provides sensor readings in response to http GET requests. It can be used as a stand alone sensor, or it can be used with a parent application, AmbientHUB, which collects readings from up to three such sensors for processing. While the AmbientAP software can be loaded into up to three sensors, there are some compile-time parameters to configure each sensor with a separate unique ID (1,2,or 3) as well as a custom SSID (default is AMBIENT_1, AMBIENT_2, or AMBIENT_3) and a unique title for the optional sensor display (~ AMBIENT 1 ~, ~ AMBIENT 2 ~, OR ~ AMBIENT 3 ~).

The AmbientHUB.ino software also controls an ESP32 microcontroller connected to a BME-280 temperature/humidity/pressure sensor and an SSD1306 OLED display over the I2C bus. Additionally, it can be wired to a Botletics SIM7000A cellular IoT modem; a LiLLYGO SIM7000G board with integrated Esp32 Wrover; an and-global SIM7000A module.  It can poll the AmbientAP sensors, if there are any, via http to collect the sensor values; alternatively, it can accept sensor inputs via ESPNow protocol. It formats the sensor values for transmission in JSON format to IFTTT.com or dweet.io via the Hologram IoT platform. This is configured to pass the data each hour, maintaining a data rate of approximately 1MByte per month.   

This approach enables users to customize IFTTT to their specific needs. One option is to forward the data to the subject line of their email account, where the bi-hourly feed can be monitored at a glance on a cellphone widget without the need to open the email app.  
